README.markdown, before:

# Todo.txt-vim

        #####                                                #     #
          #    ####  #####   ####     ##### #    # #####     #     # # #    #
          #   #    # #    # #    #      #    #  #    #       #     # # ##  ##
          #   #    # #    # #    #      #     ##     #   ### #     # # # ## #
          #   #    # #    # #    #      #     ##     #        #   #  # #    #
          #   #    # #    # #    # ##   #    #  #    #         # #   # #    #
          #    ####  #####   ####  ##   #   #    #   #          #    # #    #

                        Efficient Todo.txt management in vim

## Table of Contents

1. [Release notes](#release-notes)
2. [Introduction](#introduction)
    1. [Todo.txt rules](#todo.txt-rules)
    2. [Why this Fork ?](#Why-this-fork)
    3. [Installation](#installation)
3. [TodoTxt Files](#todotxt-files)
4. [Completion](#completion)
5. [Hierarchical Sort](#hierarchical-sort)
6. [Mappings](#mappings)
    1. [Sort](#sort)
    2. [Priorities](#priorities)
    3. [Dates](#dates)
    4. [Done](#done)

## Release notes

Since v0.7.3, `TodoComplete` is replaced by `todo#Complete`, you might need to
update your vimrc (see [completion](#completion)).

## Introduction

Todo.txt-vim is a plugin to manage todo.txt files it was initially designed by
[Freitass](https://github.com/freitass/todo.txt-vim) then forked and improved
by David Beniamine.

### Todo.txt rules

Todo.txt is a standard human readable todo notes file defined [here](http://todotxt.com):

"The todo.txt format is a simple set of
[rules](https://github.com/ginatrapani/todo.txt-cli/wiki/The-Todo.txt-Format)
that make todo.txt both human and machine-readable. The format supports
priorities, creation and completion dates, projects and contexts. That's
all you need to be productive. See an example Todo.txt file":

    (A) Call Mom @Phone +Family
    (A) Schedule annual checkup +Health
    (B) Outline chapter 5 +FamilyNovel @Computer
    (C) Add cover sheets @ComputerOffice +FamilyTPSReports
    Plan backyard herb garden @ComputerHome
    Pick up milk @ComputerGroceryStore
    Research self-publishing services +FamilyNovel @ComputerComputer
    x Download Todo.txt mobile app @ComputerPhone

### Why this fork ?

This plugin is a fork of [freitass
todo.txt-vim](https://github.com/freitass/todo.txt-vim). It add severals cool
functionalities including:

+ [Hierarchical sort](##hierarchical-sort)
+ [A completion function](#completion)
+ [A proper handling of due dates](#dates)
+ [A Flexible file naming](#todotxt-files).
+ Syntax Highlight for couples key:value.
+ `<LocalLeader>x` is a toggle which allow you to unmark a task as done.
+ `<LocalLeader>C` Toggle Mark a task cancelled
+ If the current buffer is a done.txt file, the basic sort sorts on
  completion date.
+ ...

### Installation

#### Vizardry

If you have [Vizardry](https://github.com/dbeniamine/vizardry) installed,
you can run from vim:

    :Invoke -u dbeniamine todo.txt-vim

#### Pathogen install

    git clone https://github.com/dbeniamine/todo.txt-vim.git ~/.vim/bundle/todo.txt-vim

Then from vim: `:Helptags` to update the doc

#### Quick install

        git clone https://github.com/dbeniamine/todo.txt-vim.git
        cd todo.txt-vim
        cp -r ./* ~/.vim


If you want the help installed, run `:helptags ~/.vim/doc` inside vim after
having copied the files.  Then you will be able to get the commands help with:
`:h todo.txt`

## TodoTxt Files

This plugin provides a Flexible file naming for todo.txt, all the following
names are recognized as todo:

    YYYY-MM-[Tt]odo.txt
    YYYY-MM-DD[Tt]odo.txt
    [Tt]odo-YYYY-MM.txt
    [Tt]odo-YYYY-MM-DD.txt
    [Tt]odo.txt
    [Tt]oday.txt

And obviously the same are recognize as done:

    YYYY-MM-[Dd]one.txt
    YYYY-MM-DD[Dd]one.txt
    [Dd]one-YYYY-MM.txt
    [Dd]one-YYYY-MM-DD.txt
    [Dd]one.txt
    [Dd]one-[Tt]oday.txt

Moreover, `<LocalLeader>D` moves the task under the cursor to the done.txt
file corresponding to the current todo.txt, aka if you are editing
2015-07-07-todo.txt, the done file while be 2015-07-07-done.txt. If you don't
like this behavior, you can set the default done.txt name:

    let g:TodoTxtForceDoneName='done.txt'

## Completion

This plugin provides a nice complete function for project and context, to use
it add the following lines to your vimrc:

    " Use todo#complete as the omni complete function for todo files
    au filetype todo setlocal omnifunc=todo#Complete

You can also start automatically the completion when entering '+' or '@' by
adding the next lines to your vimrc:

    " Auto complete projects
    au filetype todo imap <buffer> + +<C-X><C-O>

    " Auto complete contexts
    au filetype todo imap <buffer> @ @<C-X><C-O>


The `todo#complete` function is designed to complete projects (starting by `+`)
and context (starting by `@`). If you use it on a regular word, it will do a
normal keyword completion (on all buffers).

If you try to complete a project, it will propose all projects in all open
buffers and for each of them, it will show their context and the name of the
buffers in which they appears in the preview window. It does the same thing
for context except that it gives in the preview the list of projects existing
in each existing contexts.

## Hierarchical sort

This fork provides a hierarchical sorting function designed to do by project
and/or by context sorts and a priority sort.

`<LocalLeader>sc` : Sort the file by context then by priority
`<LocalLeader>scp` : Sort the file by context, project then by priority
`<LocalLeader>sp` : Sort the file by project then by priority
`<LocalLeader>spc` : Sort the file by project, context then by priority

The user can give argument for the two calls to vim sort function by changing
the following variables:

    g:Todo_txt_first_level_sort_mode
    g:Todo_txt_second_level_sort_mode

Defaults values are:


    g:Todo_txt_first_level_sort_mode="i"
    g:Todo_txt_second_level_sort_mode="i"


For more information on the available flags see `help :sort`

## Mappings

By default todo-txt.vim set all the mappings secribed in this section. To
prevent this behavior, add the following line to your vimrc

   let g:Todo_txt_do_not_map=1



`<LocalLeader>` is \  by default, so ̀`<LocaLeader>-s` means you type \s

### Sort

+ `<LocalLeader>s` : Sort the file by priority
+ `<LocalLeader>s+` : Sort the file on `+Projects`
+ `<LocalLeader>s@` : Sort the file on `@Contexts`
+ `<LocalLeader>sd` : Sort the file on due dates
+ `<LocalLeader>sc` : Sort the file by context then by priority
+ `<LocalLeader>scp` : Sort the file by context, project then by priority
+ `<LocalLeader>sp` : Sort the file by project then by priority
+ `<LocalLeader>spc` : Sort the file by project, context then by priority
+ `<leader>-sd` : Sort the file by due-date. Entries with a due date appears
sorted by at the beginning of the file, the rest of the file is not modified.

### Priorities

+ `<LocalLeader>j` : Lower the priority of the current line
+ `<LocalLeader>k` : Increase the priority of the current line
+ `<LocalLeader>a` : Add the priority (A) to the current line
+ `<LocalLeader>b` : Add the priority (B) to the current line
+ `<LocalLeader>c` : Add the priority (C) to the current line

### Dates

+ `<LocalLeader>d` : Insert the current date
+ `date<tab>`  : (Insert mode) Insert the current date
+ `due:`  : (Insert mode) Insert `due:` followed by the current date
+ `DUE:`  : (Insert mode) Insert `DUE:` followed by the current date

### Done


+ `<LocalLeader>x` : Toggle mark task as done (inserts or remove current
+ date as completion date)
+ `<LocalLeader>C` : Toggle mark task cancelled
+ `<LocalLeader>X` : Mark all tasks as completed
+ `<LocalLeader>D` : Move completed tasks to done file, see [TodoTxt
Files](#todotxt-files)

Commit message:

Adding first version of pomodoro tracking (with cool emojis)

README.markdown, after:

# Todo.txt-vim

        #####                                                #     #
          #    ####  #####   ####     ##### #    # #####     #     # # #    #
          #   #    # #    # #    #      #    #  #    #       #     # # ##  ##
          #   #    # #    # #    #      #     ##     #   ### #     # # # ## #
          #   #    # #    # #    #      #     ##     #        #   #  # #    #
          #   #    # #    # #    # ##   #    #  #    #         # #   # #    #
          #    ####  #####   ####  ##   #   #    #   #          #    # #    #

                        Efficient Todo.txt management in vim

## Table of Contents

1. [Release notes](#release-notes)
2. [Introduction](#introduction)
    1. [Todo.txt rules](#todo.txt-rules)
    2. [Why this Fork ?](#Why-this-fork)
    3. [Installation](#installation)
3. [TodoTxt Files](#todotxt-files)
4. [Completion](#completion)
5. [Hierarchical Sort](#hierarchical-sort)
6. [Mappings](#mappings)
    1. [Sort](#sort)
    2. [Priorities](#priorities)
    3. [Dates](#dates)
    4. [Done](#done)

## Release notes

Since v0.7.3, `TodoComplete` is replaced by `todo#Complete`, you might need to
update your vimrc (see [completion](#completion)).

## Introduction

Todo.txt-vim is a plugin to manage todo.txt files it was initially designed by
[Freitass](https://github.com/freitass/todo.txt-vim) then forked and improved
by David Beniamine.

### Todo.txt rules

Todo.txt is a standard human readable todo notes file defined [here](http://todotxt.com):

"The todo.txt format is a simple set of
[rules](https://github.com/ginatrapani/todo.txt-cli/wiki/The-Todo.txt-Format)
that make todo.txt both human and machine-readable. The format supports
priorities, creation and completion dates, projects and contexts. That's
all you need to be productive. See an example Todo.txt file":

    (A) Call Mom @Phone +Family
    (A) Schedule annual checkup +Health
    (B) Outline chapter 5 +FamilyNovel @Computer
    (C) Add cover sheets @ComputerOffice +FamilyTPSReports
    Plan backyard herb garden @ComputerHome
    Pick up milk @ComputerGroceryStore
    Research self-publishing services +FamilyNovel @ComputerComputer
    x Download Todo.txt mobile app @ComputerPhone

### Why this fork ?

This plugin is a fork of [freitass
todo.txt-vim](https://github.com/freitass/todo.txt-vim). It add severals cool
functionalities including:

+ [Hierarchical sort](##hierarchical-sort)
+ [A completion function](#completion)
+ [A proper handling of due dates](#dates)
+ [A Flexible file naming](#todotxt-files).
+ Syntax Highlight for couples key:value.
+ `<LocalLeader>x` is a toggle which allow you to unmark a task as done.
+ `<LocalLeader>C` Toggle Mark a task cancelled
+ If the current buffer is a done.txt file, the basic sort sorts on
  completion date.
+ ...

### Installation

#### Vizardry

If you have [Vizardry](https://github.com/dbeniamine/vizardry) installed,
you can run from vim:

    :Invoke -u dbeniamine todo.txt-vim

#### Pathogen install

    git clone https://github.com/dbeniamine/todo.txt-vim.git ~/.vim/bundle/todo.txt-vim

Then from vim: `:Helptags` to update the doc

#### Quick install

        git clone https://github.com/dbeniamine/todo.txt-vim.git
        cd todo.txt-vim
        cp -r ./* ~/.vim


If you want the help installed, run `:helptags ~/.vim/doc` inside vim after
having copied the files.  Then you will be able to get the commands help with:
`:h todo.txt`

## TodoTxt Files

This plugin provides a Flexible file naming for todo.txt, all the following
names are recognized as todo:

    YYYY-MM-[Tt]odo.txt
    YYYY-MM-DD[Tt]odo.txt
    [Tt]odo-YYYY-MM.txt
    [Tt]odo-YYYY-MM-DD.txt
    [Tt]odo.txt
    [Tt]oday.txt

And obviously the same are recognize as done:

    YYYY-MM-[Dd]one.txt
    YYYY-MM-DD[Dd]one.txt
    [Dd]one-YYYY-MM.txt
    [Dd]one-YYYY-MM-DD.txt
    [Dd]one.txt
    [Dd]one-[Tt]oday.txt

Moreover, `<LocalLeader>D` moves the task under the cursor to the done.txt
file corresponding to the current todo.txt, aka if you are editing
2015-07-07-todo.txt, the done file while be 2015-07-07-done.txt. If you don't
like this behavior, you can set the default done.txt name:

    let g:TodoTxtForceDoneName='done.txt'

## Completion

This plugin provides a nice complete function for project and context, to use
it add the following lines to your vimrc:

    " Use todo#complete as the omni complete function for todo files
    au filetype todo setlocal omnifunc=todo#Complete

You can also start automatically the completion when entering '+' or '@' by
adding the next lines to your vimrc:

    " Auto complete projects
    au filetype todo imap <buffer> + +<C-X><C-O>

    " Auto complete contexts
    au filetype todo imap <buffer> @ @<C-X><C-O>


The `todo#complete` function is designed to complete projects (starting by `+`)
and context (starting by `@`). If you use it on a regular word, it will do a
normal keyword completion (on all buffers).

If you try to complete a project, it will propose all projects in all open
buffers and for each of them, it will show their context and the name of the
buffers in which they appears in the preview window. It does the same thing
for context except that it gives in the preview the list of projects existing
in each existing contexts.

## Pomodoro

We use two icons to distinguish planned pomodori and done pomodori. We'll use
the term "lemons" to identify planned (and still not worked) pomodori. Ideally,
the workflow is to plan lemons at the beginning of the day, then convert them
into pomodori while you work.

Here are the available commands (with respective mappings):

+ `<LocalLeader>ts` setup row: adds a `>` marker at the end of the current
todo, unless already present (mnemonic: todo setup)
+ `<LocalLeader>tS` setup rows: adds a `>` marker at the end of each todo,
unless already present (mnemonic: todo Setup)
+ `<LocalLeader>tp` add pomodoro: adds a 🍅  to current task (mnemonic: todo
pomodoro)
+ `<LocalLeader>tP` remove pomodoro: removes a 🍅  from current task (mnemonic:
todo Pomodoro)
+ `<LocalLeader>tl` add lemon: adds a 🍋  to current task (mnemonic: todo lemon)
+ `<LocalLeader>tL` remove lemon: removes a 🍋  from current task (mnemonic:
todo Lemon)
+ `<LocalLeader>td` do pomodoro: converts a 🍋  into a 🍅  in current task
(mnemonic: todo do)

If you also use (and you should) the
[vim-easy-align](https://github.com/junegunn/vim-easy-align) plugin, you can
align the `>` markers with `:EasyAlign />/`.


## Hierarchical sort

This fork provides a hierarchical sorting function designed to do by project
and/or by context sorts and a priority sort.

`<LocalLeader>sc` : Sort the file by context then by priority
`<LocalLeader>scp` : Sort the file by context, project then by priority
`<LocalLeader>sp` : Sort the file by project then by priority
`<LocalLeader>spc` : Sort the file by project, context then by priority

The user can give argument for the two calls to vim sort function by changing
the following variables:

    g:Todo_txt_first_level_sort_mode
    g:Todo_txt_second_level_sort_mode

Defaults values are:


    g:Todo_txt_first_level_sort_mode="i"
    g:Todo_txt_second_level_sort_mode="i"


For more information on the available flags see `help :sort`

## Mappings

By default todo-txt.vim set all the mappings secribed in this section. To
prevent this behavior, add the following line to your vimrc

   let g:Todo_txt_do_not_map=1



`<LocalLeader>` is \  by default, so ̀`<LocaLeader>-s` means you type \s

### Sort

+ `<LocalLeader>s` : Sort the file by priority
+ `<LocalLeader>s+` : Sort the file on `+Projects`
+ `<LocalLeader>s@` : Sort the file on `@Contexts`
+ `<LocalLeader>sd` : Sort the file on due dates
+ `<LocalLeader>sc` : Sort the file by context then by priority
+ `<LocalLeader>scp` : Sort the file by context, project then by priority
+ `<LocalLeader>sp` : Sort the file by project then by priority
+ `<LocalLeader>spc` : Sort the file by project, context then by priority
+ `<leader>-sd` : Sort the file by due-date. Entries with a due date appears
sorted by at the beginning of the file, the rest of the file is not modified.

### Priorities

+ `<LocalLeader>j` : Lower the priority of the current line
+ `<LocalLeader>k` : Increase the priority of the current line
+ `<LocalLeader>a` : Add the priority (A) to the current line
+ `<LocalLeader>b` : Add the priority (B) to the current line
+ `<LocalLeader>c` : Add the priority (C) to the current line

### Dates

+ `<LocalLeader>d` : Insert the current date
+ `date<tab>`  : (Insert mode) Insert the current date
+ `due:`  : (Insert mode) Insert `due:` followed by the current date
+ `DUE:`  : (Insert mode) Insert `DUE:` followed by the current date

### Done


+ `<LocalLeader>x` : Toggle mark task as done (inserts or remove current
+ date as completion date)
+ `<LocalLeader>C` : Toggle mark task cancelled
+ `<LocalLeader>X` : Mark all tasks as completed
+ `<LocalLeader>D` : Move completed tasks to done file, see [TodoTxt
Files](#todotxt-files)
